{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12300\viewh16660\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 CM6206 Enabler 2.1\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 by Alexander Thomas (aka Dr. Lex)\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.dr-lex.be/"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://www.dr-lex.be/}}\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\i \cf0 doctor.lex at gmail.com
\i0 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qj\pardirnatural
\cf0 This is a small program that activates the analog and S/PDIF outputs on USB devices that are based on the C-Media CM6206 surround sound chip (sometimes also referred to as CMI6206). This IC supports up to 7.1 audio, although many devices only have six channels. Some major brands also use this chip, for instance Zalman uses it in their ZM-RS6F USB headphones and the Sweex SC016 is also based on the CM6206.\
You can see if you have a CM6206-based device by opening System Profiler. The device should show up as \'93USB Sound Device\'94 and have a Product ID of 0x0102 and Vendor ID of 0x0d8c.\
\
The CM6206 is a fully compliant USB sound card and therefore should theoretically work out-of-the-box with any operating system that has support for USB audio built-in, like OS X. In fact, it does work but for some reason the device powers up with all its outputs disabled, and some USB commands are required to activate those outputs. That is where this program comes in. It is not really a driver, it is just an \'91activator\'92.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 Installing
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qj\pardirnatural
\cf0 Unlike the old version, the program now comes in an installer package and works transparently in the background. You will need to reboot after installation.\
The program runs as a daemon and will activate every CM6206 device that is plugged in. It will also reactivate any devices when it detects a wake-from-sleep.\
\
You can verify whether the daemon works by opening Console.app and seeing if the line \'93CM6206 device added\'94  appears in system.log whenever you plug in the sound card. If your sound card has an S/PDIF output, it should light up.\
\
If for some reason you still want to run the program manually, I suppose you're tech savvy enough to find the \'91cm6206init\'92 binary in the installer package. Run it with \'93-h\'94 to see options.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 Uninstalling
\b0\fs24 \
The installer only installs two files. To uninstall, delete the folder and file:\
 
\i /Library/Application Support/CM6206\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\i0 \cf0  
\i /Library/LaunchDaemons/be.dr-lex.cm6206init.plist
\i0 \
Reboot to complete uninstallation.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 Requirements
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qj\pardirnatural
\cf0 The program should run from OS X 10.4 on, but the last time I tested it, it failed to activate the CM6206 on anything less than OS X 10.5. For some reason unknown, all interfaces on the device are \'93in use\'94 (error e00002c5) no matter what I try in 10.4.x. I'm also unsure whether the launchd plist is compatible with 10.4. In other words, you need at least 10.5.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 Caveats
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qj\pardirnatural
\cf0 While testing the program, I had several kernel panics when repeatedly plugging and unplugging the sound card while iTunes was playing and the JoeSoft \'93Hear\'94 sound enhancer was active. I avoided this by incorporating some extra delays in the program, but I cannot guarantee that the program will not crash in combination with any third-party tools that have anything to do with audio or USB. I recommend to stop audio output in all programs whenever you plug in a CM6206 sound card.\
\
The program is written such that it should be able to handle any number of sound cards, so if you feel like getting 60 output channels by hooking up as many sound cards as your USB hubs can handle, knock yourself out. This is not tested however, so I don't guarantee that it will work.\
\
Here are some common 
\i corrections of misconceptions
\i0  about CM6206-based USB sound cards:\
1. The CM6206 is 
\i not able to decode or encode AC3 or DTS streams
\i0 . It is a simple sound card with 6 or 8 discrete output channels. This means your playback software 
\i must
\i0  support built-in 5.1 decoding to get multi-channel output. For instance VLC is able to do this, but at the time of this writing, Plex is not.\
2. Most likely, the optical S/PDIF connectors, if your card has any, are completely 
\i useless
\i0  to you except as an \'91activity light\'92. Do not connect anything to them unless you know what you're doing. Most Macs already have S/PDIF built into their 3.5mm jacks. A 3.5mm optical adaptor is much cheaper and works without software.\
3. The output S/PDIF on the sound card is nothing but a hardwired copy of the \'91front\'92 channel output. It can theoretically be toggled, but you cannot route a different signal to the front channel and the S/PDIF: 
\i it is the same channel
\i0 . This is why it doesn't show up in system preferences.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 Setting up surround sound\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qj\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Unfortunately, at the time of this writing it's still quite a hassle to get surround sound properly set up on OS X. Here's a checklist of what you should do to get 5.1 sound out of any multi-channel USB sound card.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Log in using an 
\i administrator account
\i0 . Otherwise OS X will silently ignore any changes you make to the multichannel setup.\
{\listtext	2.	}In the Sound control panel, select the USB audio output device.\
{\listtext	3.	}Open the 
\i \'91Audio Midi Setup\'92
\i0  program in your Applications/Utilities folder.\
{\listtext	4.	}Select the USB card as output device and set the sampling rate to 44100 or 48000 depending on the rate of the audio you want to play (for a movie it's most likely 48k).\
{\listtext	5.	}Set the number of channels to 6 (6ch-16bit) or 8, depending on your device.\
{\listtext	6.	}Click \'91Configure speakers\'92 and choose \'935.1 surround\'94. You can click the buttons to test each speaker, but mind that the default test sound is an 
\i awfully
\i0  loud noise (you should drag the \'91Audio\'92 slider in AMS' preferences almost fully to the left to fix this).\
{\listtext	7.	}In your media player (e.g. VLC), you may also need to select the USB audio device as output device. Do not enable \'91passthrough\'92 or \'91optical out\'92 anywhere.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qj\pardirnatural
\cf0 To test if all channels work in your media player and to calibrate the volumes, there are many 5.1 test sound files available on the web. Keep in mind that for movie soundtracks, the LFE channel needs to be amplified by 10dB to be at the correct level. You should not just hook up the LFE to your subwoofer and the other channels to the satellites, but I won't go into the details of 
\i bass management
\i0  here.\
Mind that during the time when I used this sound card with VLC, I noticed that despite careful calibration, the volume of the surround channels needed considerable readjustment with pretty much every film I played. Sometimes the volume of the center channel was wrong as well. My guess is that the decoder in VLC is missing a part that sets correct relative channel gains. This, as well as lack of multichannel output in many other players like Plex, annoyed me to such a degree that I eventually bought a standalone 5.1 decoder.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 Version History
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\i \cf0 2009/06: 1.0:
\i0   Initial release.\

\i 2011/01: 2.0:
\i0   Implemented \'91daemon mode\'92 and provided an installer.\

\i 2011/02: 2.1:
\i0   Prevented the program from delaying the computer while going to sleep.\

\i 2011/04: 2.1:
\i0   Fixed permissions problem in the installer.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 Legalese\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qj\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 This program is released under the GNU General Public License. See the files main.cpp and COPYING for more details.\
\
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.\
\
This is just a hobby project and I am in no way affiliated with C-Media or the manufacturer of your particular sound card. I cannot be held responsible for any damage caused by your sound card or the combination of your sound card and this program.\
}